---
hide:
    - toc
description: Definitions
---

### Definitions

1. In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,- 
    1. “Act” means the Designs Act, 2000
    2. “Application in United Kingdom or convention country or group of countries or inter-governmental organisation” means an application made by any person in any part of United Kingdom or convention country or group of countries or inter-governmental organisation, of a design for the protection in India under the provisions of section 44 of the Act.
    3. “Office” means the Patent Office referred to in section 74 of the Patent Act, 1970 (39 of 1970)
    4. “Reciprocity Application” means an application in India under section 44 of the Act.
    5. “Set” means a number of articles of the same general character ordinarily sold together or intended to be used together, all bearing the same design, with or without modification not sufficient to alter the character or substantially to affect the identity thereof.
    6. "person other than a natural person", shall include a "small entity".
    7. “small entity” means,—
        1. in case of an enterprise engaged in the manufacture or production of goods, an enterprise where the investment in plant and machinery does not exceed the limit specified for a medium enterprise under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 7 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (27 of 2006); and
        2. in case of an enterprise engaged in providing or rendering of services, an enterprise where the investment in equipment is not more than the limit specified for medium enterprises under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 7 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.

            ??? abstract "Explaination 1"
                For the purpose of this clause, “enterprise” means an industrial undertaking or a business concern or any other establishment, by whatever name called, engaged in the manufacture of production of goods, in any manner, pertaining to any industry specified in the First Schedule to the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) or engaged in providing or rendering of any service or services in such an industry.

            ??? abstract "Explaination 2"
                In calculating the investment in plant and machinery, the cost of pollution control, research and development, industrial safety devices and such other things as may be specified by notification under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (27 of 2006), shall be excluded.
            
            ??? abstract "Explaination 3"
                The reference rates of foreign currency of the Reserve Bank of India shall prevail.
    
    8. “startup” means-
        1. an entity in India recognised as a startup by the competent authority under Startup India initiative; and
        2. in case of a foreign entity, an entity fulfilling the criteria for turnover and period of incorporation or registration as per Startup India Initiative and submitting declaration to that effect.

        ??? abstract "Explaination"
            In calculating the turnover, reference rates of foreign currency of the Reserve Bank of India shall prevail.
